And everyone.
It's all this beautiful problem and it is a colorful knapsack problem.
So basically admitted the problem very quickly you are given and stones labeled one through in the eighth
stone has a weight wc there are m colors labeled labeled by integers from one to him two basically with
m colours and stones.
The stone has a colour.
C So we have been given these cias and W are using the other constraints.
So.
CS for colour.
WS for weight.
Eight and Sears were doing random mapping of the building's full.
You are required to select exactly Emma Stone's version of each colour, some of which must not exceed
six.
So this is.
True that you cannot select and place one stones or minus one stones.
You have to select.
Exactly.
Gemstone.
And.
Yeah.
So we need to just find the best way to fill the knapsack.
So they're done, use capacities minimized.
So basically we have to maximize the items taken.
But the only thing is we have to select.
Exactly.
Armstrong.
M I am items eight.
So yeah, he's a quick example.
This is example one that I have which is an extreme is three axes, five to the knapsack, the capacity
of five feet.
So basically we have an.
Oh, and stones.
How many stones are there?
No, we have three stones to all of them.
Ever.
Rate of one.
Well, these are it and these are the colors we can see.
The first one is a color 1 seconds.
One has a color two, and third stone has a color.
So right now, we don't have any other options.
That means we have.
All this?
We have exactly one stone for all the colors.
We have to select those stones.
Right.
And when we select those stones, what's their total weight?
It is one plus one plus one, which is three.
And we can see that two is less than equal to fight.
That means.
Yes, but of course, guys, there might be a possibility that.
You are not able to select M stones so that the weight is less than equal to x.
I might be possible, for example, here if it was for.
The way it was formulated, then it would have been four plus one plus one, because now it's compulsory
to select this stone because this is the only going off color of one eight.
So here you can see two, six and six is greater than five.
Therefore we cannot pick it up.
Then in that case, what we'll do is we simply return minus one eight.
So just keep that case in mind or maybe ignore that case in you might think after this, we'll only
worry about if there's always a possibility.
So some of you might be thinking, why don't we try greedy here?
Why don't we see that?
Okay.
We have let's say we have five students of color.
One later we have three students of color, two.
And let's say we have ten students of color.
Three eight and a mystery out of all these five students of color.
One, why don't we just select the one with the maximum weight?
Why don't we just select the one with the maximum rate here?
Out of these two teaspoons.
And why don't we select the one with the maximum weight out of this?
Then they'd go further.
I have a second case for you where you can see that.
And is it so we have it.
Stones three is M so we have only at max three colors.
You can see this is wheat and this is colors.
This is and this is M and this is X.
But the knapsack episode is ten eight.
Right now what I can see is that we have three stones of color one me it, color one we have stone with
two with red, three with very full color two we have stone with two with very fluid and the wait for
you and for color three we have stone with are two inward three.
But why can't I just select the ones which have the maximum waits for all the colors?
Eight.
So here you can easily see that.
I know let's say that this is not equal to ten but instead equal to 13 the capacity of the knapsack.
So here we can easily see that four plus five plus three is equal to, well, eight and 12 is less than
less than six.
Therefore, this is a valid answer that the maximum the maximum knapsack that I can fill is 12 eight.
But what if.
It was, let's say, 11, let's say, if a knapsack was 11.
Now, after selecting the maximum colors.
The maximum weight for each colour, the maximum weight for each colour.
What we have is we have it equal to the total really close to light.
But when the total weight is equal to 12.
Yeah.
So when the total weight is equal to 12, but here you can see the knapsack capacity is 11 related N
minus one naught eight.
Because now I have other options too.
I don't have to look for it.
I can select tree.
But what I'll do is I'll just three plus four plus three is.
1108 and the knapsack capacity is 11.
In this case guide, we were able to see that, yes, we can select some of options.
But tell me one thing.
I selected four, five, 3/1.
So why don't I.
Why did I select three?
Why did I not select this two or this five?
All this food aid, both of all these three options would have looked great.
But the concerns may not be so valid.
And that means what if instead of 11, we had ten.
If we had turned in this for this fight, this result won't work.
And if I select this tree.
Instead of war, then also it won't work.
Then again, I have three options, which is at the Select Board or select two or select this to eight.
And when I select any one of them, it will work eight.
But again, saying the same thing what if it was nine?
So as you can see that there are so many cases which are being formulated over here because we can take
any of those options which are available to us.
And greedy won't work because let's say let's say instead of 40 selected to the LHC.
Right.
But what if the answer was, let's say, what if the answer was when it had four and some less number
from the second color and some less number from detectable?
It is kind of possible.
I know it is not possible in this example statement, but it can be possible that if you are living
an element in the greedy approach, that can be the final answer to trade because there are so many
possibilities.
So now what we do is we try a dynamic programming approach in this one.
So here you can see that it is very related to this absurd sum problem.
We have to formulate a particular sum which is less than equals to.
This is absurd.
Some problem.
What we had is we have to find out, as a said, which is some exactly equal to the number.
Right.
And here what we can do is be what we have to do is we have to find out the summit, which is maximum
possible.
But then it goes to.
X that's given to me.
So, for example, let's take X to be equals to.
And.
And let me quickly write it later.
This is these are decent values.
And then later we have this last column also, and that is ten full.
So some zero is never possible?
Yeah, some zero is not possible because of all these weights, because the consensus is that we will
be greater than equal to one into a two, and we don't have to worry about some zero.
So now what I do is I will try to fill this deportable by saying that the first true the faster will.
Okay.
So what does a particular cell represent?
Basically the state of the ATP.
Right?
So.
So here what I can see is DB.
I got my G.
When I zero and James column represents that it's a boolean later let me right then also it's a boolean
which represents whether.
There's some.
D It's possible.
By using.
Most Cyclers.
I feel it's simple.
So whether some days possibly if I use the first article as a tool right now, let's say I goes to one.
So what is this one possible if I use these tones of only first color, which is two, three and four?
So some that is possible is only two, three and four.
Right now.
Let's move to the second row.
And what number does it represent?
Whether something is possible if I use the first I colors, right?
It is.
Now if I use the first two colors.
So here you can see that this is not possible.
This is not possible.
What about do here?
Well, will this to be possible?
No.
Right.
Because it is absurd.
Some problem.
If it is possible from some sub subset above, it will still be possible.
But in this case, it's not true.
This one means that some two is possible by using one only.
Right.
But in the end, what we want, we want exactly one element from each color.
We can't say that we are not picking two.
We have to pick.
A storm from Canada.
That means.
I guess if I did possible.
If I eliminated accommodate is only possible if.
DP i.e. minus one and j minus.
W let's call it.
Okay.
If I minus one demon's w case possible.
And what is this k this k.
Okay, let me explain it to you that way.
Yeah.
So for this to raise, if I want to use this color to I so can I see that this color too can come after
this particular.
Value, which is above or above some two, and the current color, too.
And it can come after this.
It can also come after this.
Basically, these three values, which are four, five and six, can have a.
Low value aid.
How can it have a true value?
Because this can be made by using by taking you to this fight can be made by using three, two, and
this six can be made by using four to.
Correct.
That means exactly one from.
Each color tells two.
So now let's talk about this for if I want to use this color for that means two plus 4 to 6.
It is already two, three plus 4 to 7 and four plus four is eight, eight.
So all these other cells which are seven and eight cell.
Now they will also give me two Y because three are okay because three plus 47 and four plus four, is
it correct?
So basically what I'm doing is for each cell, I'm just checking previously whether any of this is possible
and in here w k this, this it has a weight rate.
So these words are only the weights of the current row.
That means if I use one element from the current row, is the previous value true or not?
And I can use any of these one element.
So basically.
Okay, let me fill it for the third row as well.
Walter Reuther, you can see the let's see if I use value to go for it for what's true.
That means I can make a sum of what by using plus two colors.
That means I cannot do after it.
Which is the storm, which is way to include three, right?
If I had to after it.
This will be true.
Six will be true.
Right.
This means two plus two +28.
And.
What about this seven?
So the seven getting me only possible if this five is possible.
So it's possible.
This is can only be possible if this six is possible.
It's possible eight.
This nine gives all the possible because seven is possible.
And the standard odds of what will be scored because they say it is possible that you can see.
This is four plus five plus two is 11.
Right.
And.
Okay.
So.
I we are getting this now.
There's one thing that actually I'm I think it's it's missed that is what I did not update the value
for this five rates of all five is nine and three plus five is eight, which is already filled and two
plus five is seven.
Yeah.
No, it's correct.
And now again you can see it is one one, one one.
Right.
So here you can easily see that for any cell.
What I can do is I can try to place any of the current colours stones made, and if I place any of the
current stones there, I can then directly check whether w minus one and D-minus w is possible or not.
So what will the time complexity here?
What any.
Okay.
So how many cells are there?
There are some which is x cross the colours and across m cells and put all these X across m cells.
I'm kind of.
Checking backwards, basically checking this W.K. backwards for all the instruments.
So it is according to him in doing so because ultimately.
Okay.
Hmm.
So I might not necessarily multiply and whatever because, you know, we are not checking for all of
we are not checking for all zeros.
Right.
That means.
What all this is.
I'm not checking for all the and all this on trade.
What a particular rule.
We are just checking for that particular.
Colors.
Students.
Mean, we're not checking for all these students again and again for all these cells.
So it might not be good if if I multiply it by an eight, but according to him and I can see it is explained
to him.
Can we say a lesson because.
Yeah.
I think we can replace him.
Okay, so explain to him why this is whose values we are going to fail and for those we are just checking
it for.
And don't I think we can't.
Six into implosion eight though.
And we can't also say anything to him in doing that.
That would also not be true because.
Let's.
Okay, let's just say that for a second rule or second rule for all this is what I'm doing is I'm trying
to figure out what all these three stones eight.
So, okay, let me write it like this then maybe let's go deeper in due time.
Complexity, analysis it.
Eight for any role.
How many sales are there.
What?
And you know, I believe.
And X.
That means X columns and for all these excels, what I'm doing is I'm actually trying to figure out
for all these particular stones of the same color.
Right.
So let's say city represents this drawing of color, right?
That means X into essay.
It would be my complexity right where I was from.
I goes from one to.
M Eric to x x into s1x into s2 x into s3x into his foot and so on.
Now, this is a good complexity and.
Yeah.
So here, what I can do is.
I can pick x out x outside and I can see I goes from one to m summation of x eight as a eight.
And what will be the summation of essay?
How many students for a particular color will be there?
So.
Nicole Alexis I began say yes.
So submission of essay is nothing but an ode to how many stones of particular color are there.
And if I submit from one to him, that means all these tones of all the golden.
That means, as one does as to this tree, which is nothing but and and to the complexity of the solution
is nothing but Xanadu.
And and what is ex into here.
To exist and this by Ford and we can see that and is and it so it goes to ten is to about six.
Correct.
So the time complexity here is a very tricky part, but I hope you understand this.
And the second part here is the code, which is, again, very easy.
I am not coding it.
I'll provide you the code.
But and and there's just one challenge, a problem that I want to give you that try this using Richard's
right.
Try using Richard because invitational.
What you will have to do is you need to write to the bits that if you can see it, let's see if I were
bitten, I will write it for every stone of a colour and then for all the values that I get, I have
to dig there.
Not.
I'm okay.
You'll realize it only if you called it.
But I'm leaving the quote to you.
Well, so thank you all.
In the next part.